we've got to talk one last time about
Bernie Sanders best-selling book our
revolution a book that sold over 200,000
copies and yet mysteriously if you
search here on YouTube you will find
almost nobody ever posted a book review
video
nobody ever posted a roundtable
political discussion of the contents of
this book compare that to the number of
YouTube videos you will find responding
to and discussing the philosophy of
jordan Peterson's twelve steps to be a
completely fatuous self-important
[ __ ]
whatever his best-selling book okay both
books were legitimate bestsellers the
difference is this is a book hundreds of
thousands of people purchased but that
nobody actually read included in that
category of nobody I must say our
American journalists I've now listen to
countless hours of so-called political
experts employed as journalists in the
United States of America including
journalists who were interviewing Bernie
Sanders face to face none of those
people seemed to be aware of what is in
this book obviously the majority of his
election promises and the rationale for
them and the plan is set out very
clearly in this book now why is this how
is it possible that Bernie Sanders went
from being the most discussed most
influential politician in the United
States of America to being in like third
place after Joe Biden and Elizabeth
Warren in some polls yeah I know
sometimes Jason said whatever King being
a distant second at best how was it that
Bernie Sanders who ended up being the
underdog in a race that he seemed to
dominate
before it ever began a race in which he
was the only one with the best-selling
book in which he had far more money far
more small donors far more support for
more public interest and he also had the
heroic story of his David & Goliath
battle against Hillary Clinton all kinds
of reasons why Bernie Sanders ought to
be the most successful political leader
ought to be dominating the discourse but
he's not the hypothesis I'm gonna put
forward in this video is basically that
what people respond to in politics are
not ideas but are the potential for real
world change and what Bernie Sanders has
presented are a lot of ideas that just
do not have that kind of credibility
that people just do not feel there's any
threat or any chance of them ever
actually happening even if Bernie
Sanders is elected especially not when
he stacked his own deck with so many
nearly impossible to accomplish promises
my girlfriend asked me to talk about the
green New Deal so I'm gonna talk about
it this video otherwise honestly it
wouldn't it wouldn't be one of the
issues discussed here green New Deal
ecological policy proposed by Bernie
Sanders he himself estimates the cost at
sixteen point three trillion sixteen
point three trillion dollars would you
like to know how much tax revenue the
United States of America has per annum
1.5 trillion now Bernie Sanders has some
excellent ideas to increase tax revenue
the United States Bernie Sanders policy
on taxation is much much better than
Andrew Yang's policy
Andrew yang is proposing a horrible
regressive value-added tax
absolutely terrible Bernie Sanders has
proposed that every man woman and child
earning more than 1 billion dollars can
I repeat everyone with more than 1
billion dollars in wealth
so I misspoke the first time this is
about wealth not income will have a 10%
tax on their wealth okay so that's
that's in the book here I believe from
memory the book says there are actually
only 560 individuals in America who have
over 1 billion dollars whether it's 560
or 600 this is not even the 1% this is a
tiny number of unbelievably wealthy
individuals and when you tax their
wealth that's not just taxing the amount
of money they made this year some of
these people own 10 houses each house is
worth a million dollars or many millions
dollars it would be a tax of their total
wealth that would indeed be a huge
amount of money flowing into the coffers
of the American government and would
have profound effects on inequality in
America would have profound long-term
effects on say it's a whole great
concept great again but um I don't think
I don't think the new taxes proposed by
Bernie Sanders would increase the
revenue from 1.5 trillion to more than 3
trillion I don't think the effect is
gonna be that dramatic and even if it
were even if Bernie Sanders managed to
double the amount of money collected by
the US federal government should be an
amazing accomplishment for any
politician to double the tax revenue of
a nation that that size he's not just
promising a 1.6 pardon me pardon me a 16
trillion 16 trillion I was gonna say 1.6
joy no no a 16 trillion dollar
environmental policy package the Green
Deal he's also promising to make
university tuition free do you want to
estimate how many Tryon that's gonna be
he's promising to make Medicare free for
all ride medical care not just for the
poor but for all Americans cost free
trillions trillions of dollars these add
up I think there's a fundamental sense
in the American body politic
that what Bernie Sanders is talking
about doing is not plausible enough to
be worth debating it's not plausible
enough to be worth reading and that's
why here on YouTube I see no serious
discussion of the ideas and and policy
plans set out in this book and why even
none of the journalists talking to him
really discuss that stuff now it's a
tragedy because there's another way of
presenting what Bernie Sanders
represents that's much more
down-to-earth and practicable and
attainable and those of you who be
following his career well right away
recognize this as one one strain of his
thought or one genre of rhetoric he sent
us employees every so often he says hey
I've been to Detroit and I've been
across the river to Canada why is it
that medical care cost so much more in
Detroit than in Canada why is it that
specific medicines are ten times more
expensive in Detroit than if you just go
across the border to Canada why is it
that Americans are being ripped off
don't you tell me that America can't
accomplish the same thing Canada has in
terms of providing people with
reasonable cheap accessible health care
don't you tell me that America can't
accomplish the same things that Scotland
already has or Taiwan already has
single-payer health care Taiwan actually
is an especially pure example of a
single home single-payer health care
system there's another face to Bernie
Sanders where he frankly and bluntly
represents America as being 50 years
behind the accomplishments of other
countries in Europe and other countries
in Asia and says of course we can
accomplish this what do you think people
in Scotland are geniuses do you think
people in Canada are geniuses do you
think people these other countries have
some advantages we can't possibly have
and I've said this before this is very
reminiscent of a particular documentary
by Michael Moore in which he went around
to Italy and Denmark to these different
countries he felt represented
accomplishments in public policy that
America should should aspire to catch up
with so that is one school of thought
within the mainstream American left
unfortunately I think the reality is in
2016 the only reason why Bernie Sanders
is not dominating the race because he
started off so far ahead he should be he
should he should be far far ahead of Joe
Biden he should be far far ahead of
Elizabeth Warren I mean just in terms of
Fame and and name recognition you know
at the end of the race with you know
Hillary Clinton people barely knew who
Elizabeth Warren was and and to the
extent to which they did know she was
she was just associated with these you
know claims and counterclaims but
whether or not she had American a Native
American ancestry
first nations an accesory indigenous
answer really not a great place for her
to start her campaign um Bernie Sanders
should be leading the race and the
discussion of his best-selling book and
what it would mean for America's future
should be at the top of the policy
debate platform here on YouTube on talk
radio and everywhere else and it isn't
because people fundamentally do not find
it plausible none of them believe that
they can wake up I don't know five years
from now and live in a country where
college tuition is free where medical
care is free for everyone where you have
been 16 trillion dollars poured into
ecological adaptation the occult economy
economy
no one believes even that is his foreign
policy is viable okay we just had an
event in the news you guys may not
follow this stuff the Houthi rebels had
a big victory against Saudi Arabia this
is in Yemen
this is the disputed you know Yemen
Saudi Arabia subcontinent okay does
anyone really believe that Bernie
Sanders is gonna cross his arms and
allow the Taliban to take over
Afghanistan to let human blood spill
don't forget Barack Obama was talking
about withdrawing from Iraq entirely and
then you had the Yazidi crisis you had
this bizarre situation where Yazidis and
ethnic minority were being massacred and
the women abducted into sex slavery and
you know there was footage of this
evidence of this and journalists were
interviewing survivors and all of a
sudden Barack Obama is the most Pro war
person he has to intervene to save the
Yazidis guess what there are people who
need saving in Afghanistan there people
who need saving in Iraq and even Saudi
Arabia in Yemen
just just do a Google search for who the
who TR is do a Google search for what
Iran is up to I know nobody on the left
is gonna do this I know that absolutely
nobody on the left is willing to look
into why Israel is terrified of Iran and
what Iran is doing in Lebanon I know
you're not gonna do it I know that
everyone left of center the United
States of America just wants to sit
there self righteously and say Oh Donald
Trump is bad and evil and wrong because
he's daring to admit to himself the same
way Benjamin Netanyahu does that Iran
really is a threat to the political
status quo not just on that comment but
hopefully okay yeah well you know what
Donald Trump is stupid but even a broken
watch is Right twice a day
okay no one can really believe that
Bernie Sanders will actually end US
military hegemony and then sit back with
his arms crossed and watch the
consequences unfold not even for
Afghanistan which is maybe the place on
earth Americans now care the least about
even though they are themselves the most
morally responsible for the outcomes of
whatever happens next in that war-torn
country the war you brought to them the
democratic system you created the hopes
of the future of the education system
the universities American taxpayers
dollars bills to abandon all that to let
Afghanistan revert to being the world's
number one terrorist training crossroads
the world's number one opium producing
opium exporting theocratic despotism
where women don't have the right to go
to school nobody believes the promises
Bernie Sanders is making in domestic
policy or in foreign policy and the
tragedy is despite all these things
Bernie Sanders probably is the best bet
any of you have for a better future he's
better than Donald Trump he's better
than Elizabeth Warren and Joe Biden
you've got to be joking